feat(monorepo): split indexer into apps and packages (#68)
namehash/ensnode: README.md

# ENSNode

> ENSNode is an open-source ENS data provider for web applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ENSNode is a multichain indexer for ENS, powered by Ponder.
```

> This repository is built from modules falling into two categories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ENSNode monorepo contains multiple modules in the following subdirectories:
```

> - `apps` for runnable code,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `apps` for executable applications.
```

Please also make `apps` a link to the `apps` subdirectory.

> - `packages` for library code (to be included in runnable code).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `packages` for libraries you can embed into your own apps.
```

Reviewer 2: 'for libraries both published and used here internally'?

> The main module of this repository is `apps/ensnode`. Read more about [`apps/ensnode` here](apps/ensnode/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main module of this repository is the ENSNode app found in [`apps/ensnode`](apps/ensnode).
```

# ENSNode

ENSNode is a multichain indexer for ENS, powered by Ponder.

The ENSNode monorepo contains multiple modules in the following subdirectories:

> - `apps`  executable applications.

Reviewer: Please make "apps" a link to the apps directory. Same for "packages".

> - `packages` for libraries, both published and used here internally, can be embedded into your own apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `packages` for libraries that can be embedded into apps.
```

The main module of this repository is the ENSNode app found in [`apps/ensnode`](apps/ensnode).

## Quick start

### Prerequisites

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/)
  - Minimal supported version: `>=14`
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)
  - It's recommended you install Node.js through [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) (see link for installation instructions).
  - To ensure you're running the expected version of Node.js run `nvm install` in the root of the repository (after you clone it).
  - Node.js will automatically install `corepack`. You should also ensure Corepack is enabled by running `corepack enable`.
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/)
  - Run `npm install -g pnpm` or see [other installation options](https://pnpm.io/installation).
  - To ensure you're running the expected version of pnpm run `corepack use pnpm` in the root of the repository (after you clone it).

### Run the indexer

#### Prepare workspace environment
Clone this repository:
```
git clone git@github.com:namehash/ensnode.git
cd ensnode
```

Install workspace dependencies:
```
pnpm install
```

#### Prepare application environment

> Go into the application root directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go into the main ENSNode application root directory:
```

```
cd apps/ensnode
```

Configure for your local application environment:
```
cp .env.local.example .env.local
```
then review the docs inside your .env.local file for configuration instructions.

- `ACTIVE_PLUGINS` — a comma-separated list of plugin names. Available plugin names are: `eth`, `base.eth`, `linea.eth`. The activated plugins list determines which contracts and chains are indexed. Any permutation of plugins might be activated (except no plugins activated) for single-chain or multi-chain indexing.
- `RPC_URL_*` — optional, but you can use private ones to speed the syncing process up
- `RPC_REQUEST_RATE_LIMIT_*` — optional, you can change the rate limit for RPC requests per second.
- `DATABASE_SCHEMA` is arbitrary, with the limitations mentioned in the linked documentation
- `DATABASE_URL` is your postgres database connection string

Once your `.env.local` is configured, launch the indexer by running:
- `pnpm ponder dev` for development mode,
- `pnpm ponder start` for production mode.

To learn more about those commands, go to https://ponder.sh/docs/api-reference/ponder-cli#dev

> ### Query index

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Query indexed data
```

> The ENSNode exposes two GraphQL endpoints to query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ENSNode exposes two GraphQL endpoints to query:
```

- `/` uses a Ponder-native GraphQL schema
- `/subgraph` uses a subgraph-compatible GraphQL schema

#### Examples

> Fetching data about most recently-created domains while skipping some initial records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fetch data about the 3 most recently-created domains.
```

Please see some related comments below.

<details>
  <summary>Ponder-native query</summary>

  ```gql
  {
    domains(
      orderBy: "createdAt"
      orderDirection: "desc"

>       after: "eyJjcmVhdGVkQXQiOnsiX190eXBlIjoiYmlnaW50IiwidmFsdWUiOiIxNjM5ODk1NzYxIn0sImlkIjoiMHhkNTczOGJjNGMxYzdhZDYyYWM0N2IyMWNlYmU1ZGZjOWZkNjVkNTk4NTZmNmYyNDIxYjE5N2Q0ZjgxNmFkZTRjIn0"

Reviewer: Suggest removing the complexity of this "after" idea from the example queries. We should make the first example queries as simple as possible for people who aren't familiar with GraphQL yet.

      limit: 3
    ) {
      items {
        name
        expiryDate
      }
      pageInfo {
        endCursor
      }
      totalCount
    }
  }
  ```

  <details>
    <summary>Ponder-native response</summary>

    ```
    {
      "data": {
        "domains": {
          "items": [
            {
              "name": "cdkey.eth",
              "expiryDate": "1963241281"
            },
            {
              "name": "threeion.eth",
              "expiryDate": "1710785665"
            },
            {
              "name": "humes.eth",
              "expiryDate": "1710785665"
            }
          ],
          "pageInfo": {
            "endCursor": "eyJjcmVhdGVkQXQiOnsiX190eXBlIjoiYmlnaW50IiwidmFsdWUiOiIxNjM5ODk1NzYxIn0sImlkIjoiMHgyZWFmNmQ1YjU1YjdhZWI0NmNiZmRiMjVkN2VjOGY4MWYxNDg2YmFmNWFiNjhkZTM5M2YzYTcyNjM1ZDdmN2FkIn0="
          },
          "totalCount": 982390
        }
      }
    }
    ```
  </details>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Subgraph-native query</summary>

  ```gql
  {

>     domains(orderBy: createdAt, orderDirection: desc, skip: 40, first: 3) {

Reviewer: Also suggest removing any "skip" here. Please see comment above.

        name
        expiryDate
    }
  }
  ```

  <details>
    <summary>Subgraph-native response</summary>

    ```
    {
      "data": {
        "domains": [
          {

>             "name": "🐧🐧🐧🐧🐧🐧🐧🐧🐧.eth",

Reviewer: Ideally the names and expiry dates shown for both example queries would be identical. If this is tricky to action within this PR then no worries. Please create a separate follow up issue for it and we can improve this later. Appreciate your advice.

            "expiryDate": "1710785244"
          },
          {
            "name": "rebelteenapeclub.eth",
            "expiryDate": "1679228224"
          },
          {

>             "name": "[b4201276b6f7ffe5a50b0c3c1406c21295ab9f553107ddc9c715be2f9a6f6e90].[e5e14487b78f85faa6e1808e89246cf57dd34831548ff2e6097380d98db2504a].[dec08c9dbbdd0890e300eb5062089b2d4b1c40e3673bbccb5423f7b37dcf9a9c]",

Reviewer: Let's please try to avoid an example response that includes unknown labels. We should pick more simple and beginner friendly examples.
